<p>We Initiated.....</p><p>Our project was initiated with infinite ideas in our mind.First of all a lot of time a lot of time was given in deciding the mechanical structure of our bot. After rigorous searching on google we came to a final decision among 3 bots , these are 1.tilted twister 2. Yellow Cube Machine 3. Cubic Cage.But all the team members were much attractive towards the Structure of Yellow Cube Machine which was a bit complex at the first sight, but we got used to it the work started. The mechanism used in the tilted twister was a bit slow so it was rejected and in case of cubic cage,as the cube was fixed and the rods were fitted in the cube side it was a bit difficult to implement and then the cube could not be removed and shuffled.So we turned on to the structure of Yellow Cube Machine.Parallel wise other members were engrossed in searching the optimized and a perfect algorithm for the rubik's cube solving part.We were lucky enough that after some googling we got an open source software Cube Explorer 5.0. The software takes input of all the colors of a random cube and provides the solution using a two phase algorithm(Kociemba's Algorithm). The input can be taken using webcam or manually. We had to input the colors manually because using webcam had its own issues. The red and orange colors were not differentiated properly and hence orange was never detected by the webcam. Also there were problems regarding light intensity.Then once the problem of creating the solution was resolved we diverted our focus on stepper motor control. It was a challenge for us to control 4 stepper motors according to the solution created. For doing this it was required to create a bridge between the solution created by the Cube Explorer and the arduino which we were using for controlling the stepper motor.So we decided to decode the solution first into a string format and then feed it to the arduino. So,for doing this c++ was used.Initially we faced a problem using CodeBlocks , so we used Visual Studio for the Serial Communication with Arduino.</p><p>We Progressed......</p><p>We then shifted our focus to Motor Driver Circuit.Initially, we used A4988 Stepper Motor Driver which didn't work, as it had current limiting issues. Then we tried to use Two L293D connected in parallel, which neither provided the current limit required, moreover the Arduino UNO  got damaged which forced us to move to a different driver . After a lot of searching we got a Motor Driver Circuit named DRV8825, but this was a totally new driver to us never heard off before.So it was necessary to completely learn about this driver's current limit,pin diagram and a lot of things so as to operate it well.This took a lot of days but at the end we managed to work with the driver. At last we were happy of a new thing learned. Next we moved on to Servo motors,though they were familiar but it was necessary to caliberate the torque required for its use. For this , we initially made a prototype of one of the arms of our bot which helped us in getting the required Servo motor. As the servo was able to provide the necessary torque to an extent , it was high time for us to prepare the most difficult part of our project - the mechanical part which included a lot of cutting with proper dimensions.Now came the most important decision of the material to be used for the preparation of our bot . Finally we had to choose between acrylic and wood. Some suggested acrylic while others wood.As we learned that it would be much difficult to cut the acrylic with proper dimensions and also we had a bit experience of wood cutting from workshop courses, we decided to continue with wood. The mechanical part took almost a week to complete but there were some errors in the dimension which involved filing of the wood.</p>